*: test command v1.2 update (#451)
ObolNetwork/obol-docs: docs/run/prepare/test-command.md

## Test all

Intended for running test across all categories. Each flag should be have a suffix of its category (i.e.: the flag `--endpoints` from the beacon tests becomes `--beacon-endpoints`). For details about each category refer to its respective section.

### Pre-requisites

#### Running after you have started cluster creation

All prerequisites for each category apply to `test all`.

### Run

```shell
./charon test all \
  --beacon-endpoints="https://ethereum-holesky-beacon-api.publicnode.com,https://ethereum-sepolia-beacon-api.publicnode.com" \
  --mev-endpoints="https://0xac6e77dfe25ecd6110b8e780608cce0dab71fdd5ebea22a16c0205200f2f8e2e3ad3b71d3499c54ad14d6c21b41a37ae@boost-relay.flashbots.net" \
  --peers-enrs="enr:-HW4QNDXi9MzdH9Af65g20jDfelAJ0kJhclitkYYgFziYHXhRFF6JyB_CnVnimB7VxKBGBSkHbmy-Tu8BJq8JQkfptiAgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaEDBVt5pk6x0A2fjth25pjLOEE9DpqCG-BCYyvutY04TZ,enr:-HW4QO2vefLueTBEUGly5hkcpL7NWdMKWx7Nuy9f7z6XZInCbFAc0IZj6bsnmj-Wi4ElS6jNa0Mge5Rkc2WGTVemas2AgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaECR9SmYQ_1HRgJmNxvh_ER2Sxx78HgKKgKaOkCROYwaDY" \

>   --output-json="/opt/charon/test/test-result.json"

Author: Yes, I've mentioned it on the Slack. We've been discussing it in the past months, that it's better aligned with the rest of the stack.

```

Load test

```shell
./charon test all \
  --beacon-endpoints="https://ethereum-holesky-beacon-api.publicnode.com,https://ethereum-sepolia-beacon-api.publicnode.com" \
  --beacon-load-test \
  --mev-endpoints="https://0xac6e77dfe25ecd6110b8e780608cce0dab71fdd5ebea22a16c0205200f2f8e2e3ad3b71d3499c54ad14d6c21b41a37ae@boost-relay.flashbots.net" \

>   --mev-beacon-node-endpoint="https://ethereum-beacon-api.publicnode.com" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --mev-beacon-node-endpoints="https://ethereum-beacon-api.publicnode.com" \
```

Is this to get the proposer schedule to ask the relay for a block? can we just use the `--beacon-endpoints` flag if present, and do the older version of the mev test if we are given none at all?

Author: > Is this to get the proposer schedule to ask the relay for a block?
It is used for 2 things:
  1. Get the latest block, so we can use its hash in the next one, when we query the MEV relay (it is required by it)
  2. Fetch proposers for an epoch, so we know for which validators to query the MEV relay

> can we just use the --beacon-endpoints flag if present
Yes, we can use it and I assume you also want it for `test mev` and not only for `test all`. However, it will cause:
1. Users being unable to test rare MEV, with `test all` as it will always get stuck finding a block.
2. Misleading users as we will make absolutely no use of multiple beacon nodes.

Reviewer: > Users being unable to test rare MEV, with test all as it will always get stuck finding a block.

Hmmm, because we would try the 'good mev test' and thus not test the rare relays? I guess thats a reason to not join them, but I would also consider a flag on test all like --mev-quick-test or something to do the non real way, but can't say that's necessarily easier than omitting a different flag

> Misleading users as we will make absolutely no use of multiple beacon nodes.

If we do add `s`s to `beacon-node-endpoint` flags places, we can create an issue to throw in the backlog about trying all beacon nodes with a pick list like @gsora developed for the --fallback-beacon-nodes feature, so if someone takes deep offence to the misleading name, we can point to the issue and say sorry, WIP?

Author: > If we do add `s`s to `beacon-node-endpoint` flags places, we can create an issue to throw in the backlog about trying all beacon nodes with a pick list like @gsora developed for the --fallback-beacon-nodes feature, so if someone takes deep offence to the misleading name, we can point to the issue and say sorry, WIP?

Okay, but... in the MEV tests we don't test or care about the BN's performance. How fast it delivers us the payloads we ask it to doesn't change the outcome of the MEV test at all, it is testing purely the relay. And that is on purpose, to remove the bias that the BN might add. That said, I'm expecting just a healthy BN with average performance to be able to answer once per slot and once per epoch on the requests I send to it.

  --output-json="/opt/charon/test/test-result.json"
```

### Run with Docker

```shell
docker run -v "$(pwd):/opt/charon/test" obolnetwork/charon:v1.1.2 test all \
  --beacon-endpoints="https://ethereum-holesky-beacon-api.publicnode.com,https://ethereum-sepolia-beacon-api.publicnode.com" \
  --beacon-simulation-file-dir="/opt/charon/test" \
  --mev-endpoints="https://0xa7ab7a996c8584251c8f925da3170bdfd6ebc75d50f5ddc4050a6fdc77f2a3b5fce2cc750d0865e05d7228af97d69561@agnostic-relay.net,https://0xac6e77dfe25ecd6110b8e780608cce0dab71fdd5ebea22a16c0205200f2f8e2e3ad3b71d3499c54ad14d6c21b41a37ae@boost-relay.flashbots.net,global.titanrelay.xyz" \
  --peers-enrs="enr:-HW4QBHlcyD3fYWUMADiOv4OxODaL5wJG0a7P7d_ltu4VZe1MibZ1N-twFaoaq0BoCtXcY71etxLJGeEZT5p3XCO6GOAgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaEDI2HRUlVBag__njkOWEEQRLlC9ylIVCrIXOuNBSlrx6o,enr:-HW4QDwUF804f4WhUjwcp4JJ-PrRH0glQZv8s2cVHlBRPJ3SYcYO-dvJGsKhztffrski5eujJkl8oAc983MZy6-PqF2AgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaECPEPryjkmUBnQFyjmMw9rl7DVtKL0243nN5iepqsvKDw" \

>   --infra-disk-io-test-file-dir="/opt/charon/test" \

Author: The default for `infra-disk-io-test-file-dir` is `./`. I prefer to not put a default value that is to satisfy a docker container.

>   --data-dir="/opt/charon/test/.charon" \

Author: It won't store anything. It will use the enr for the peers test. I used the already existing `--data-dir` flag. Probably we need to change its description.

>   --data-dir="/opt/charon/test/.charon" \

Reviewer: If it doesn't store anything, maybe we should be like `charon run`, where we moved away from `data-dir` and instead had `--private-key-file` ? (looks like we forgot to do the same in `charon dkg`...) Or at least the description change maybe, but think an exact flag for the enr might the most precise and inline with the rest of our commands. 

https://docs.obol.org/next/learn/charon/charon-cli-reference#the-run-command

>   --data-dir="/opt/charon/test/.charon" \

Author: Good point, will update that now!

If all points are satisfied by you and the other peers, you should be able to establish a direct TCP connection between each other. Note that a relay is still required, as it is used for peer discovery.

### Pre-requisites

> #### Running before you have started cluster creation

Author: > Here might be a good place to consider moving towards tabs.
Yes, I agree. I don't have the time to think on how the docs will be formated and presented though. I hoped @slugmann321 can help with that...

> Also same feedback around not changing the standard flag names
Yes, good point, I will put those ones.

- Supply the peers' ENRS to the command with the `--enrs` flag.

#### Running after you have started cluster creation

- Supply either `cluster-definition.json` or `cluster-lock.json` file (depending on which stage of cluster creation you are) to `--cluster-definition-file-path` or `--cluster-lock-file-path` flag, respectively.

### Run

```shell
charon test peers \
  --enrs="enr:-HW4QNDXi9MzdH9Af65g20jDfelAJ0kJhclitkYYgFziYHXhRFF6JyB_CnVnimB7VxKBGBSkHbmy-Tu8BJq8JQkfptiAgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaEDBVt5pk6x0A2fjth25pjLOEE9DpqCG-BCYyvutY04TZ,enr:-HW4QO2vefLueTBEUGly5hkcpL7NWdMKWx7Nuy9f7z6XZInCbFAc0IZj6bsnmj-Wi4ElS6jNa0Mge5Rkc2WGTVemas2AgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaECR9SmYQ_1HRgJmNxvh_ER2Sxx78HgKKgKaOkCROYwaDY"
```

### Run with Docker

```shell
docker run -v "$(pwd)/.charon:/opt/charon/.charon" obolnetwork/charon:v1.1.2 test peers \
  --enrs="enr:-HW4QNDXi9MzdH9Af65g20jDfelAJ0kJhclitkYYgFziYHXhRFF6JyB_CnVnimB7VxKBGBSkHbmy-Tu8BJq8JQkfptiAgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaEDBVt5pk6x0A2fjth25pjLOEE9DpqCG-BCYyvutY04TZs,enr:-HW4QO2vefLueTBEUGly5hkcpL7NWdMKWx7Nuy9f7z6XZInCbFAc0IZj6bsnmj-Wi4ElS6jNa0Mge5Rkc2WGTVemas2AgmlkgnY0iXNlY3AyNTZrMaECR9SmYQ_1HRgJmNxvh_ER2Sxx78HgKKgKaOkCROYwaDY"
```

## Test beacon node

> Run tests towards beacon node(s), to evaluate its effectiveness for a Distributed Validator cluster. The beacon node is usually the instance getting the most load, especially with high number of validators serviced by the validator client and Charon. If the beacon node is self-hosted (which is highly recommended), the flag `--load-test` can be added. Note that the load tests include also simulations for various number of validators, which takes time (usually ~33 minutes). It is normal to observe some warnings during the simulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run tests on beacon node(s), to evaluate their effectiveness for a Distributed Validator cluster. The beacon node is usually the client doing the most work in a validating stack, especially with a high number of validators being serviced by the validator client(s) and Charon(s) that depend on it. If the beacon node you are testing is self-hosted (which is highly recommended for production), the flag `--load-test` can be added. These tests include simulated workloads for an increasing number of validators, and the process takes some time (approximately ~33 minutes). It is normal to observe some warnings during the simulations.
```

### Run

```shell
charon test validator
```

### Run with Docker

```shell
docker run obolnetwork/charon:v1.1.2 test validator
```

## Test MEV relay

> Run tests towards MEV relay(s), to evaluate its effectiveness for a Distributed Validator cluster. If a MEV-Boost instance is configured for the validator node, it is of utmost importance that the connection to the relays it connects to is fast and reliable. If not, the chance of missing a block proposal increases significantly, because of a slow building of the block from the MEV. It is possible to also run a load test towards the MEV relay(s), where an actual block building will take place. This can be done by supplying `--load-test` flag and a second flog where beacon node endpoint is specified: `--beacon-node-endpoint`.

Reviewer: @KaloyanTanev How about another slight change. Don't think its accurate to say the building happens at the relay, theoretically its supposed to be a different actor (e.g. beaverbuild is not a relay, titan is a builder+relay)

```suggestion
Run tests towards MEV relays, to evaluate their effectiveness for a Distributed Validator cluster. If MEV-Boost clients are configured for the distributed validator nodes, it is of utmost importance that the relays they connect to are fast and reliable. If not, the chance of missing a block proposal increases significantly. Supplying `--beacon-node-endpoint` and `--load-test` flags allows the test to ask relays for real MEV headers, increasing accuracy (and duration) of this test.
```

> Run tests towards MEV relay(s), to evaluate its effectiveness for a Distributed Validator cluster. If a MEV-Boost instance is configured for the validator node, it is of utmost importance that the connection to the relays it connects to is fast and reliable. If not, the chance of missing a block proposal increases significantly, because of a slow building of the block from the MEV. It is possible to also run a load test towards the MEV relay(s), where an actual block building will take place. This can be done by supplying `--load-test` flag and a second flog where beacon node endpoint is specified: `--beacon-node-endpoint`.

Author: Fully agree.
